OKTA-542408 API documentation for CIBA (#3709)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/oidc/index.md

| [/authorize](#authorize)                                                          | Interact with the resource owner and obtain an authorization grant.                     |
| [/par](#par)                                                                      | Push an authorization request payload directly to the authorization server that responds with a request URI value for use in subsequent authorization requests to the `/authorize` endpoint. <ApiLifecycle access="ie" />                     |
| [/device/authorize](#device-authorize)                                            | Obtain an activation code for the resource owner.<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />           |

> | [/bc/authorize](#bc-authorize)                                                    | Client-Initiated Backchannel Authentication request to initiate the authentication of an end-user which responds with unique identifier `auth_request_id` that identifies that authentication while it tries to authenticate the user in the background. This `auth_request_id` value is used in subsequent token requests to the `/token` endpoint. <ApiLifecycle access="ie" /> <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />                 |

Author: updated

}
```

### /bc/authorize

<ApiOperation method="post" url="${baseUrl}/v1/bc/authorize" /> <ApiLifecycle access="ie" /> <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

> This endpoint returns a unique identifier `auth_request_id` that identifies that authentication while it tries to authenticate the user in the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This endpoint returns a unique identifier (`auth_request_id`) that identifies the authentication flow while it tries to authenticate the user in the background.
```

Author: resolved

>  **Note:** This endpoint's base URL varies depending on whether you are using a Custom Authorization Server. For more information, see [Composing your base URL](#composing-your-base-url).

#### Request parameters

> The following parameters can be posted as a part of the URL-encoded form values to the API.

Author: updated

> **Note:** The `/bc/authorize` endpoint requires client authentication. See the [Client authentication methods](#client-authentication-methods) section for more information on which method to choose and how to use the parameters in your request.

| Parameter               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                     | DataType | Required |
| :---------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                                   | :-----   | :-----   |

> | scope                   | `openid` is required for authentication requests. Other [scopes](#access-token-scopes-and-claims) may also be included.                                                                         | String   | TRUE     |

Author: updated

> | login_hint              | A hint to the OpenID Provider regarding the end-user for whom authentication is being requested.                                                                                                | String   | TRUE     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| login_hint              | A hint to the OpenID Provider regarding the user for whom authentication is being requested.                                                                                                | String   | TRUE     |
```

Author: updated

> | id_token_hint           | An ID Token previously issued to the Client as a hint to identify the end-user for whom authentication is being requested.                                                                      | String   | TRUE     |

Author: updated

> | binding_message         | A message which is displayed for the user to identify the transaction.                                                                                                                          | String   | FALSE    |

Author: updated

> | request_expiry          | A positive integer allowing the client to request the expires_in value for the auth_req_id the server will return. Max value is 5 minutes                                                       | Integer  | FALSE    |

Author: updated

| request                 | A JWT created by the client that enables requests to be passed as a single, self-contained parameter. See [Parameter details](#client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-parameter-details).  | JWT      | FALSE    |

>  **Note:** Only one of `login_hint` or `id_token_hint` must be specified in the authentication request.

#### Client-Initiated Backchannel Authentication Parameter details

* `request`:

  * You must sign the JWT using either the app's client secret or a private key whose public key is registered on the app's JWKSet.

>   * The JWT can't be encrypted.

Reviewer: does this mean that PKCE isn't supported?
```suggestion
  * The JWT can't be encrypted.
```

Author: No, this is only talking about the signed requests.

  >  **Note:** See [Build a JWT for client authentication](/docs/guides/build-self-signed-jwt/) for information on how to build a JWT.
  * Okta supports the [HMAC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518#section-3.2), [RSA](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518#section-3.3) and [ECDSA](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518#section-3.4) signature algorithms. HMAC signatures require that the client has a `token_endpoint_auth_method` that uses a `client_secret`. RSA and ECDSA signatures requires that the client registers a public key.

>   * `backchannel_authentication_request_signing_alg` must be specified during client registration to use the signed authentication requests.

Author: updated

  * Okta validates the `request` parameter in the following ways:
    1. `iss` is required and must be the `client_id`.

>     2. `aud` is required and must be the same value as the Authorization Server issuer that mints the ID or access token. This value is published in the metadata for your Authorization Server.

Author: updated

    3. JWT lifetime is evaluated using the `iat` and `exp` claims, if present. If the JWT is expired or not yet valid, Okta returns an `invalid_request_object` error. Okta rejects JWTs that expire more than one hour in the future.

>     4. Okta rejects the JWT if the `jti` claim is present and it has already been processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4. Okta rejects the JWT if the `jti` claim is present and it's already been processed.
```

Author: updated

#### Response properties

| Property                  | Description                                                                                                         | Type    |
| :------------------------ | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                      | :------ |

> | auth_req_id               | This is a unique identifier to identify the authentication request made by the Client.                              | String  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| auth_req_id               | A unique identifier to identify the authentication request made by the client                             | String  |
```

Author: updated

#### Possible errors

| Error Id                 | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| :----------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| invalid_client           | The specified `client_id` isn't found.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| invalid_request          | The request is missing a necessary parameter, the parameter has an invalid value, or the request contains duplicate parameters. |
| invalid_scope            | The scopes list contains an invalid or unsupported value.                                                                                                                                                  |

> | unknown_user_id          | The OpenID Provider is not able to identify which end-user the Client wishes to be authenticated by means of the hint provided in the request.                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| unknown_user_id          | The OpenID Provider isn't able to identify which user the client wants authenticated by means of the hint provided in the request.                                                                                                                                                  |
```

Author: updated

> | unauthorized_client      | The Client is not authorized to use this authentication flow.                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| unauthorized_client      | The client isn't authorized to use this authentication flow.                                                                                                                                                  |
```

Author: updated

| access_denied            | The server denied the request.                                                                                                                                                  |

#### Request examples

> 

Reviewer: We add a sentence above each one to describe each so that users don't have to try and compare them to see what is different between them.

Also - question just for me - is it required to include either login_hint or id_token_hint in the request?

Author: yes, you need to pass either login_hint or id_token_hint in the request

| :---------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                                   | :-----   | :-----   |
| scope                   | `openid` is required for authentication requests. You can also include other [scopes](#access-token-scopes-and-claims).                                                                         | String   | TRUE     |
| login_hint              | A hint to the OpenID Provider regarding the user for whom authentication is being requested.                                                                                                    | String   | TRUE     |
| id_token_hint           | An ID token previously issued to the client as a hint to identify the user for whom authentication is being requested.                                                                          | String   | TRUE     |

> | binding_message         | A message that appears for the user to identify the transaction.                                                                                                                                | String   | FALSE    |

Reviewer: isn't this optional?
```suggestion
| binding_message         | (Optional) A message that appears for the user to identify the transaction.                                                                                                                                | String   | FALSE    |
```

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79472517/196819034-422effcd-a080-4700-ae8f-8a36f4d72410.png)
yes

> | request_expiry          | A positive integer allowing the client to request the `expires_in` value for the `auth_req_id` that the server returns. Max value is five minutes.                                              | Integer  | FALSE    |

Reviewer: isn't this optional?
```suggestion
| request_expiry          | (Optional) A positive integer allowing the client to request the `expires_in` value for the `auth_req_id` that the server returns. Max value is five minutes.                                              | Integer  | FALSE    |
```

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79472517/196819007-6dbcd5a1-3347-440a-b08c-19b83ae43fbe.png)
Yes

> | request                 | A JWT created by the client that enables requests to be passed as a single, self-contained parameter. See [Parameter details](#client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-parameter-details).  | JWT      | FALSE    |

Reviewer: is this optional?
```suggestion
| request                 | (Optional) A JWT created by the client that enables requests to be passed as a single, self-contained parameter. See [Parameter details](#client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-parameter-details).  | JWT      | FALSE    |
```

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79472517/196818994-be7070bc-0d92-4bc2-b10c-7ce8d81fbf2a.png)
yes

>  **Note:** Only one of `login_hint` or `id_token_hint` must be specified in the authentication request.

#### Client-Initiated Backchannel Authentication Parameter details

* `request`:

  * You must sign the JWT using either the app's client secret or a private key whose public key is registered on the app's JWKSet.
  * You can't encrypt the JWT.
  >  **Note:** See [Build a JWT for client authentication](/docs/guides/build-self-signed-jwt/) for information on how to build a JWT.
  * Okta supports the [HMAC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518#section-3.2), [RSA](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518#section-3.3) and [ECDSA](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518#section-3.4) signature algorithms. HMAC signatures require that the client has a `token_endpoint_auth_method` that uses a `client_secret`. RSA and ECDSA signatures require that the client registers a public key.

>   * You must specify `backchannel_authentication_request_signing_alg` during client registration to use the signed authentication requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * You must specify `backchannel_authentication_request_signing_alg` either during client registration or when updating the client to use the signed authentication requests.
```

Author: updated

#### Response properties

| Property                                                          | Description                                                                                                                               | Type    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |

> | issuer                                                            | The complete URL for a Custom Authorization Server. This becomes the `iss` claim in an access token. In the context of this document, this is your authorization server's [base URL](#composing-your-base-url).                                                                                                                                              | String  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| issuer                                                            | The complete URL for a custom authorization server. This becomes the `iss` claim in an access token. In the context of this document, this is your authorization server's [base URL](#composing-your-base-url).                                                                                                                                              | String  |
```

Author: updated

| token_endpoint                                                    | URL of the authorization server's [token endpoint](#token).                                                                               | String  |
| registration_endpoint                                             | URL of the authorization server's [Dynamic Client Registration endpoint](/docs/reference/api/oauth-clients/#register-new-client).         | String  |
| jwks_uri                                                          | URL of the authorization server's [JSON Web Key Set](/docs/reference/api/authorization-servers/#certificate-json-web-key-object) document. | String  |
| response_types_supported                                          | JSON array that contains a list of the `response_type` values that this authorization server supports. Can be a combination of `code`, `token`, and `id_token`.                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Array   |

> | response_modes_supported                                          | JSON array that containis a list of the `response_mode` values that this authorization server supports. More information [here](#parameter-details). | Array   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| response_modes_supported                                          | JSON array that containis a list of the `response_mode` values that this authorization server supports. More information in [parameter details](#parameter-details). | Array   |
```

Author: updated

| grant_types_supported                                             | JSON array that contains a list of the `grant_type` values that this authorization server supports.                                       | Array   |

> | subject_types_supported                                           | JSON array that contains a list of the Subject Identifier types that this OP supports. Valid values are `pairwise` and `public`, but only `public` is currently supported. See the [Subject Identifier Types] (https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#SubjectIDTypes) section in the OpenID Connect specification.                                                                                                                                         | Array   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| subject_types_supported                                           | JSON array that contains a list of the Subject Identifier types that this OP supports. Valid types are `pairwise` and `public`. Supported values: `public`. See the [Subject Identifier Types] (https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#SubjectIDTypes) section in the OpenID Connect specification.                                                                                                                                         | Array   |
```

Author: updated

| registration_endpoint                                             | URL of the authorization server's [Dynamic Client Registration endpoint](/docs/reference/api/oauth-clients/#register-new-client)                                                                                                           | String  |
| request_object_signing_alg_values_supported                       | The signing algorithms that this authorization server supports for signed requests.                                                                                                                                                        | Array   |
| request_parameter_supported                                       | Indicates if [Request Parameters](#parameter-details) are supported by this authorization server.                                                                                                                                          | Boolean |

> | response_modes_supported                                          | JSON array that contains a list of the `response_mode` values that this authorization server supports. More information [here](#parameter-details).                                                                                           | Array   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| response_modes_supported                                          | JSON array that contains a list of the `response_mode` values that this authorization server supports. More information in [Parameter details](#parameter-details).                                                                                           | Array   |
```

Author: updated

| revocation_endpoint                                               | URL of the authorization server's [revocation endpoint](#revoke).                                                                                                                                                                          | String  |
| revocation_endpoint_auth_methods_supported                        | JSON array that contains a list of [client authentication methods](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#client-authentication-methods/) supported by this revocation endpoint.                                                                                                                                       | Array   |
| scopes_supported                                                  | JSON array that contains a list of the `scope` values that this authorization server supports.                                                                                                                                                | Array   |

> | subject_types_supported                                           | JSON array that contains a list of the Subject Identifier types that this authorization server supports. Valid types include `pairwise` and `public`, but only `public` is currently supported. See the [Subject Identifier Types] (https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#SubjectIDTypes) section in the OpenID Connect specification. | Array   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| subject_types_supported                                           | JSON array that contains a list of the Subject Identifier types that this authorization server supports. Valid types include `pairwise` and `public`. Supported values: `public`. See the [Subject Identifier Types] (https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#SubjectIDTypes) section in the OpenID Connect specification. | Array   |
```

Author: updated

| token_endpoint                                                    | URL of the authorization server's [token endpoint](#token).                                                                                                                                                                                | String  |
| token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported                             | JSON array that contains a list of [client authentication methods](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#client-authentication-methods/) supported by this token endpoint.                                                                                                                                            | Array   |

> | backchannel_token_delivery_modes_supported                        | The delivery modes that this authorization server supports for Client-Initiated Backchannel Authentication. Valid types include `poll`, `ping` and `push`, but only `poll` is currently supported. <ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />                                                          | Array   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| backchannel_token_delivery_modes_supported                        | The delivery modes that this authorization server supports for Client-Initiated Backchannel Authentication. Valid types include `poll`, `ping` and `push`. Supported values: `poll`. <ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />                                                          | Array   |
```

Author: updated
